Hello, everyone.
This lesson should be very quick, I just want us to set up a few more precautions regarding the data
that visitors are sending over.
And then at the end of this lesson, we can segway into actually saving this data into a database.
All right.
Without further ado, let's jump right into the action.
So first, I want to make sure that a visitor is not allowed to send anything for these values other
than a simple string of text.
So I do not want to accept an object or an array or anything that's not a string.
So let me show you how I would set this up within our text editor, within our user model file towards
the bottom, within our register function.
This is where we are actually calling our validate function.
Well, right above this line where we say this dot validate and call that right above that.
Let's add a new line and say this dot clean up.
I just made this name up.
But now let's go ahead and create a function with this matching name.
The idea is that I just want to keep this code separate from our validation rules.
So I named it lowercase, clean and then uppercase you it for up cleanup.
So maybe right above our validate function definition, let's add a new line and say uppercase user
dot prototype dot clean up equals and then just set it to equal a function of parentheses, curly brackets.
Now within this clean up function, let's do this, let's check to see if whatever they submitted for
the user name is anything other than a string.
So let's say if parentheses curly brackets for our condition, let's say if and then in JavaScript there's
a function named type of now depending on what we pass into this function, it's going to return that
type of value that it is.
So within these parentheses, let's pass in this dot data dot username and then in between these two
closing parentheses, let's say if that does not equal string.
So all together we're saying if the user name value does not have a type of string, well, then within
these curly brackets, let's just set the user name value to be an empty pair of quotes.
So this dot data dot username equals empty pair of quotes.
This way we are getting rid of or completely ignoring whatever non string value this was set to previously
instead of we're just setting it to a completely safe, empty string of text.
And then from there are other validation rules can take care of that, right?
It will catch that the user name is blank and it will throw this error.
You must provide a user name.
OK, now within our cleanup function, let's copy and paste or duplicate this line of code.
So let's copy this and let's actually paste it once and twice.
So we had the same line of code three times.
Let's just adjust things for the second and third line to check the email and password respectively.
So on the second line, change this to email.
If the email is something other than a string, let's just set this data email to an empty pair of quotes
and then finally do the same thing on this line for password.
Change it here as well as at the end here.
OK, let's change gears now.
Let's set things up so that if the request has any extra bogus properties other than just these three
username, email and password, well, we would want to ignore those other properties.
Let me show you how I would set this up.
So right below this line, but still within our cleanup function, let's add a new line and we can even
write a comment here to stay organized and say get rid of any bogus properties.
And to do this, I would just say this data equals an object.
So curly brackets and then within those curly brackets, I would just manually spell out the fields
that I actually want.
So I would say user name should be this dot data username, comma.
I would say email is this dot data, dot email, comma.
And then I'd say password should be this dot data dot password.
This way we are cleaning up or purifying our data property.
If the visitor sent over any bogus properties like sky color or Bhave food.
Right.
We don't care about that.
We just want to completely ignore that and get that out of our data property.
So this way we are overwriting or updating our data property.
To refresh your memory back in user controller, remember when we say lower case user equals a new instance
of our upper case user blueprint, that's where we are passing in as an argument.
The form data that was just submitted, right.
Request body.
So back in user model, that's what we are receiving with this data parameter and that's what we're
saving into this data.
So in case that included any bogus properties, we're just updating it or overwriting it again by manually
spelling out which properties we actually want.
Now, while we're at it, we can also clean things up further.
So, for example, on the user name, right after we say this data user name here, let's say dot trim
the trim method, we'll get rid of any empty spaces at the beginning or end of the value.
So, for example, if someone typed the username of space, space, space, space, Brad, and then
five more spaces, well, we don't want to acknowledge or accept those spaces.
We would want to trim that empty white space.
So we just end up with the actual characters that they typed in.
So the trim method will take care of that on a string of text.
Let's also after Trem say dot to lower case.
Right.
So that way we are forcing the user name to be all lowercase letters.
It will convert whatever they typed in.
OK, let's do the same thing for their email address.
So after email here, let's say Dot Trem and let's also call to lowercase and then for the password.
We do not want to trim or convert to lowercase for the password.
In the case of a password, we do want to honor or respect them pressing the space key however many
times they see fit right.
A space is a valid part of a password and obviously we would want to allow for lowercase and uppercase
letters in the password so it doesn't need trem or to lowercase.
OK, let's go ahead and save this file and that's really all we needed to accomplish in this lesson.
So we have now protected ourselves from visitors trying to submit something other than simple strings
of text.
We've also ignored any extra bogus properties they try to send over.
And we also trimmed and converted the email and username to lowercase cool.
At this point, we're ready to try saving a user into a database.
If you scroll down to the bottom of our user model file, remember that within our register function
we already wrote ourselves comments, right?
We said step number one, validate the user data.
So we've done that.
We've cleaned up the data and we validated it.
Now, step number two, only if there are zero validation errors, then let's actually save the data
into a database.
And that is exactly what we are ready to set up in our next lesson.
Now, let's keep things rolling and I will see you then.